---
layout: post
title: Advances in proteomic research
----

Abstract
Background: Antimalarial drugs impose strong selective pressure on Plasmodium falciparum parasite genomes and leaves signatures of selection. The evolutionary basis of drug-resistant malaria in endemic and epidemic settings remains an ongoing scientific priority that will significantly affect treatment outcomes.
Methods: We used various approaches to test the neutral models of evolution using P. falciparum genomic data which were collected between 2013 and 2015 in Kombewa and Maseno in Kisumu, Kenya. The Synonymous/Non-synonymous ratio was used to predict the effect of selection on protein-coding loci of the Pfk13 gene. A logistic regression model was used to test the association between IC50s and the Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNPs). Cutoff Scanning Matrix (mCSM) and Site-Directed Mutator (SDM) were used to detect the effects of mutations on Pfk13 gene. Microsatellite analyzer and Customized R scripts with the relevant population genetics packages were used to calculate FST and analyze Population differentiation.
Results: For samples collected in 2013, Tajima’s D genomic summary statistic was 4.53194, Fu & Li D* 2.13380, and Fu &Li F* 3.62142. However, in 2015 Tajima’s D was -2.42910, Fu and Li’s D* -5.2712, and Fu and Li’s F* -5.0045. The dN/dS in 2013 was 1.0299, while in 2015 dN/dS was 2.6884 indicative of positive selection in the Kenyan P. falciparum population occur on the intra or inter-blade domains on the PfK13 propeller domain. The F¬ST analysis showed minimal parasite population differentiation during treatment. In addition, there was no significant association between identified SNPs and IC50, although SNPs at codon D547E showed an association with Artesunate and D559E with AQ and MQ IC50 respectively.
Conclusion: Even though there is an exponential increase in the number of non-synonymous mutations in the Pfk13 gene, the Kenyan P. falciparum strains remain sensitive to ACT drugs. Further research needs to be done by deep sequencing this location of chromosome 13 as it will provide more power for finding novel SNPs for further validation. 
